# Contact Manager

## Overview

This Python-based contact manager is a command-line application designed to manage personal or professional contacts . It alows users to perform various actions such as adding, searching, deleting, and exporting contacts to a CSV file.

The application is modular, with separate components for functionality (contacts.py), interaction (main.py), and testing (test_contact_manager.py). It adheres to Pythonic principles and is tested to ensure reliability.

## Features

 - **Add Contacts:** Validate and add contacts (with phone number checks) to a JSON file.
 - **Search Contacts:** Find contacts by name with case-insensitive matching.
 - **Delete Contacts:** Remove unwanted entries.
 - **Export Contacts:** Save all contacts to a CSV file.
 - **Robust Error Handling:** Ensures smooth user experience.
 - **Backup:** Automatically creates a backup of contact data before overwriting.
 - **Testing:** Includes comprehensive unit tests using pytest.
 **User-Friendly Interface:** It uses Colorama for colored messages and Pyfiglet to display a banner at startup, enhancing the overall user experience.


## Directory Structure
```
    contact_manager/
    ├── src/
    │   ├── init.py                # Makes the src directory a package.
    │   ├── contacts.py            # Contain the core ContactManager class with all business logic
    │   └── main.py                # Main entry point that ties everything together.
    ├── tests/
    |   ├── init.py                # Makes the tests directory a package.
    │   ├── test_contacts.py       # Pytest tests for contacts module.
    ├── data/  
    |   ├── contacts.json          # JSON file alowing for structured data storage 
    │   ├── contacts.bak           # Backup file kepping last version of contact file
    └── requirements.txt           # Project dependencies.
    └── pyproject.toml             # Project dependencies for Poetry.
    └── poetry.lock                # Dependency file generated by Poetry 
```
## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- pip (Python package installer) 

    or 
- poetry (Python dependency manager)

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
```bash
    git clone <https://github.com/michalpuskac/Python_projects.git>
    cd password_manager
```

2.	Set up a virtual environment (optional but recommended):
```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3.	Install the required dependencies:
```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Using Poetry
1. **Install Poetry:**
```bash
    pip install poetry
```

2. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
    poetry install
```

---

### Dependencies

 - Python 3.13+
 - Packages (see requirements.txt):
 - pytest: For testing.
 - tabulate: For formatted output.
 - colorama: For terminal color support (Windows).
 - packaging, pluggy, iniconfig: Dependencies for pytest.

## Usage
1. **Poetry**
```bash
    poetry run python src/main.py
```

2. OR **Virtual enviroment**
```bash
    python src/main.py
```
#### Example Interaction

        --- Contact Manager ---
        1. Add new contact
        2. Show all contacts
        3. Search contact
        4. Delete contact
        5. Export all contacts to CSV
        Type 'exit' to quit


## Running tests

```bash
    # In virtual enviroment
    pytest tests/

    # In poetry navigate firt to tests folder
    cd tests
    poetry run pytest .
```
This command will discover and run all tests in the tests/ directory.he application works as expected.


## Dependencies

 - [pyfiglet](https://pypi.org/project/pyfiglet/): For generating a stylized ASCII art banner.
 - [colorama](https://pypi.org/project/colorama/): For colorful terminal text.
 - [pytest](https://pypi.org/project/pytest/): For running the test suite.
 - [tabulate](https://pypi.org/project/tabulate/): For formatted output.

 All dependencies are listed in the requirements.txt or pyproject.toml  file.

## Notes
 - **Contact Handling and Validation:**
Contacts are stored in a Python dictionary where each contact’s name (converted to lowercase to avoid duplicates) is the key, and the phone number is the value. When adding a new contact, the phone number is validated using a regular expression. This regex checks that the number consists of 9 to 15 digits and may optionally start with a +, ensuring that only valid phone numbers are added.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.Feel free to use, modify, and distribute this application as per the terms of the license.

## Author - Michal Puškáč

This project is part of my portfolio, showcasing the basic python skills and concepts. If you have any questions, feedback, or would like to collaborate, feel free to get in touch!

---
- **LinkedIn**:(linkedin.com/in/michal-puškáč-94b925179)
- **GitHub**: (github.com/michalpuskac)

---
